azureps-cmdlets-docs/ResourceManager/docs-conceptual/get-started-azureps.md, before:

---
title: Get started with Azure PowerShell | Microsoft Docs
description:
services: azure
author: sdwheeler
ms.author: sewhee
manager: carmonm
ms.product: azure
ms.service: azure-powershell
ms.devlang: powershell
ms.topic: get-started-article
ms.date: 03/30/2017
---
# Getting started with Azure PowerShell

Azure PowerShell is designed for managing and administering Azure resources from the command line,
and for building automation scripts that work against the Azure Resource Manager. This article
helps get you started using it, and teaches you the core concepts behind it.


## Install Azure PowerShell
The first step is to make sure you have the latest version of the Azure PowerShell installed.  The latest version is 4.1.0.

1. [Install Azure PowerShell](install-azurerm-ps.md).

2. To verify the installation was successful, run `Get-Module AzureRM` from your
   command line.


## Log in to Azure

Sign on interactively:

1. Type `Login-AzureRmAccount`.  You will get dialog box asking for your Azure credentials. Option '-EnvironmentName' can let you login in Azure China or Azure Germany.
   e.g. Login-AzureRmAccount -EnvironmentName AzureChinaCloud

2. Type the email address and password associated with your account. Azure authenticates and saves
   the credential information, and then closes the window.

Once you have signed in to an Azure account, you can use the Azure PowerShell cmdlets to access and
manager the resources in your subscription.

## Create a resource group

Now that we've got everything set up, let's use Azure PowerShell to create resources within Azure.

First, create a Resource Group. Resource Groups in Azure provide a way to manage multiple resources
that you want to logically group together. For example, you might create a Resource Group for an
application or project and add a virtual machine, a database and a CDN service within it.

Let's create a resource group named "MyResourceGroup" in the westeurope region of Azure. To do so
type the following command:

```powershell
New-AzureRmResourceGroup -Name 'myResourceGroup' -Location 'westeurope'
```

```
ResourceGroupName : myResourceGroup
Location          : westeurope
ProvisioningState : Succeeded
Tags              :
ResourceId        : /subscriptions/XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup
```

## Create a Windows Virtual Machine

Now that we have our resource group, let's create a Windows VM within it. To create a new VM we must
first create the other required resources and assign them to a configuration. Then we can use that
configuration to create the VM.

### Create the required network resources

First we need to create a subnet configuration to be used with the virtual network creation
process. We also create a public IP address so that we can connect to this VM. We create a network
security group to secure access to the public address. Finally we create the virtual NIC using all
of the previous resources.

```powershell
# Variables for common values
$resourceGroup = "myResourceGroup"
$location = "westeurope"
$vmName = "myWindowsVM"

# Create a subnet configuration
$subnetConfig = New-AzureRmVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name mySubnet1 -AddressPrefix 192.168.1.0/24

# Create a virtual network
$vnet = New-AzureRmVirtualNetwork -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -Name MYvNET1 -AddressPrefix 192.168.0.0/16 -Subnet $subnetConfig

# Create a public IP address and specify a DNS name
$publicIp = New-AzureRmPublicIpAddress -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -Name "mypublicdns$(Get-Random)" -AllocationMethod Static -IdleTimeoutInMinutes 4
$publicIp | Select-Object Name,IpAddress

# Create an inbound network security group rule for port 3389
$nsgRuleRDP = New-AzureRmNetworkSecurityRuleConfig -Name myNetworkSecurityGroupRuleRDP  -Protocol Tcp `
  -Direction Inbound -Priority 1000 -SourceAddressPrefix * -SourcePortRange * -DestinationAddressPrefix * `
  -DestinationPortRange 3389 -Access Allow

# Create a network security group
$nsg = New-AzureRmNetworkSecurityGroup -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -Name myNetworkSecurityGroup1 -SecurityRules $nsgRuleRDP

# Create a virtual network card and associate with public IP address and NSG
$nic = New-AzureRmNetworkInterface -Name myNic1 -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -SubnetId $vnet.Subnets[0].Id -PublicIpAddressId $publicIp.Id -NetworkSecurityGroupId $nsg.Id
```

### Create the virtual machine

First we need a set of credentials for the OS.

```powershell
# Create user object
$cred = Get-Credential -Message "Enter a username and password for the virtual machine."
```

Now that we have the required resources we can create the VM. For this step, we create a VM
configuration object, then we use the configuration to create the VM.

```powershell
# Create a virtual machine configuration
$vmConfig = New-AzureRmVMConfig -VMName $vmName -VMSize Standard_D1 |
  Set-AzureRmVMOperatingSystem -Windows -ComputerName $vmName -Credential $cred |
  Set-AzureRmVMSourceImage -PublisherName MicrosoftWindowsServer -Offer WindowsServer -Skus 2016-Datacenter -Version latest |
  Add-AzureRmVMNetworkInterface -Id $nic.Id

# Create a virtual machine
New-AzureRmVM -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location -VM $vmConfig
```

The `New-AzureRmVM` command outputs results once the VM has been fully created and is ready to be used.

```
RequestId IsSuccessStatusCode StatusCode ReasonPhrase
--------- ------------------- ---------- ------------
                         True         OK OK
```

Now log on to your newly created Windows Server VM using Remote Desktop and the public IP address
of the VM. The following command displays the public IP address created in the previous script.

```powershell
$publicIp | Select-Object Name,IpAddress
```

```
Name                  IpAddress
----                  ---------
mypublicdns1400512543 xx.xx.xx.xx
```

If you are on a Windows-based system, you can do this from the command line using the mstsc
command:

```
mstsc /v:xx.xxx.xx.xxx
```

Supply the same username/password combination you used when creating the VM to log in.


## Create a Linux Virtual Machine

To create a new Linux VM we must first create the other required resources and assign them to a
configuration. Then we can use that configuration to create the VM. This assumes that you have
already created the resource group as previously shown. Also, you will need to have an SSH public
key named `id_rsa.pub` in the .ssh directory of your user profile.

### Create the required network resources

First we need to create a subnet configuration to be used with the virtual network creation
process. We also create a public IP address so that we can connect to this VM. We create a network
security group to secure access to the public address. Finally we create the virtual NIC using all
of the previous resources.

```powershell
# Variables for common values
$resourceGroup = "myResourceGroup"
$location = "westeurope"
$vmName = "myLinuxVM"

# Definer user name and blank password
$securePassword = ConvertTo-SecureString ' ' -AsPlainText -Force
$cred = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential ("azureuser", $securePassword)

# Create a subnet configuration
$subnetConfig = New-AzureRmVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name mySubnet2 -AddressPrefix 192.168.2.0/24

# Create a virtual network
$vnet = New-AzureRmVirtualNetwork -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -Name MYvNET2 -AddressPrefix 192.168.0.0/16 -Subnet $subnetConfig

# Create a public IP address and specify a DNS name
$publicIp = New-AzureRmPublicIpAddress -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -Name "mypublicdns$(Get-Random)" -AllocationMethod Static -IdleTimeoutInMinutes 4
$publicIp | Select-Object Name,IpAddress

# Create an inbound network security group rule for port 22
$nsgRuleSSH = New-AzureRmNetworkSecurityRuleConfig -Name myNetworkSecurityGroupRuleSSH  -Protocol Tcp `
  -Direction Inbound -Priority 1000 -SourceAddressPrefix * -SourcePortRange * -DestinationAddressPrefix * `
  -DestinationPortRange 22 -Access Allow

# Create a network security group
$nsg = New-AzureRmNetworkSecurityGroup -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -Name myNetworkSecurityGroup2 -SecurityRules $nsgRuleSSH

# Create a virtual network card and associate with public IP address and NSG
$nic = New-AzureRmNetworkInterface -Name myNic2 -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -SubnetId $vnet.Subnets[0].Id -PublicIpAddressId $publicIp.Id -NetworkSecurityGroupId $nsg.Id
```

### Create the virtual machine

Now that we have the required resources we can create the VM. For this step, we create a VM
configuration object, then we use the configuration to create the VM.

```powershell
# Create a virtual machine configuration
$vmConfig = New-AzureRmVMConfig -VMName $vmName -VMSize Standard_D1 |
  Set-AzureRmVMOperatingSystem -Linux -ComputerName $vmName -Credential $cred -DisablePasswordAuthentication |
  Set-AzureRmVMSourceImage -PublisherName Canonical -Offer UbuntuServer -Skus 14.04.2-LTS -Version latest |
  Add-AzureRmVMNetworkInterface -Id $nic.Id

# Configure SSH Keys
$sshPublicKey = Get-Content "$env:USERPROFILE\.ssh\id_rsa.pub"
Add-AzureRmVMSshPublicKey -VM $vmConfig -KeyData $sshPublicKey -Path "/home/azureuser/.ssh/authorized_keys"

# Create a virtual machine
New-AzureRmVM -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location -VM $vmConfig
```

Now that the VM has been created, you can log on to your new Linux VM using SSH with the public IP
address of the VM you created:

```bash
ssh xx.xxx.xxx.xxx
```

```
Welcome to Ubuntu 14.04.4 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.19.0-65-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com/

  System information as of Sun Feb 19 00:32:28 UTC 2017

  System load: 0.31              Memory usage: 3%   Processes:       89
  Usage of /:  39.6% of 1.94GB   Swap usage:   0%   Users logged in: 0

  Graph this data and manage this system at:
    https://landscape.canonical.com/

  Get cloud support with Ubuntu Advantage Cloud Guest:
    http://www.ubuntu.com/business/services/cloud

0 packages can be updated.
0 updates are security updates.



The programs included with the Ubuntu system are free software;
the exact distribution terms for each program are described in the
individual files in /usr/share/doc/*/copyright.

Ubuntu comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by
applicable law.

my-login@MyLinuxVM:~$
```

## Creating other resources in Azure

We've now walked through how to create a Resource Group, a Linux VM, and a Windows Server VM. You
can create many other types of Azure resources as well.

For example, to create an Azure Network Load Balancer that we could then associate with our newly
created VMs, we can use the following create command:

```powershell
New-AzureRmLoadBalancer -Name MyLoadBalancer -ResourceGroupName myResourceGroup -Location westeurope
```

We could also create a new private Virtual Network (commonly referred to as a "VNet" within Azure)
for our infrastructure using the following command:

```powershell
$subnetConfig = New-AzureRmVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name mySubnet2 -AddressPrefix 10.0.0.0/16
$vnet = New-AzureRmVirtualNetwork -ResourceGroupName myResourceGroup -Location westeurope `
  -Name MYvNET3 -AddressPrefix 10.0.0.0/16 -Subnet $subnetConfig
```

What makes Azure and the Azure PowerShell powerful is that we can use it not just to get
cloud-based infrastructure but also to create managed platform services. The managed platform
services can also be combined with infrastructure to build even more powerful solutions.

For example, you can use the Azure PowerShell to create an Azure AppService. Azure AppService is a
managed platform service that provides a great way to host web apps without having to worry about
infrastructure. After creating the Azure AppService, you can create two new Azure Web Apps within
the AppService using the following commands:

```powershell
# Create an Azure AppService that we can host any number of web apps within
New-AzureRmAppServicePlan -Name MyAppServicePlan -Tier Basic -NumberofWorkers 2 -WorkerSize Small -ResourceGroupName myResourceGroup -Location westeurope

# Create Two Web Apps within the AppService (note: name param must be a unique DNS entry)
New-AzureRmWebApp -Name MyWebApp43432 -AppServicePlan MyAppServicePlan -ResourceGroupName myResourceGroup -Location westeurope
New-AzureRmWebApp -Name MyWebApp43433 -AppServicePlan MyAppServicePlan -ResourceGroupName myResourceGroup -Location westeurope
```

## Listing deployed resources

You can use the `Get-AzureRmResource` cmdlet to list the resources running in Azure. The following
example shows the resources we just created in the new resource group.

```powershell
Get-AzureRmResource |
  Where-Object ResourceGroupName -eq myResourceGroup |
    Select-Object Name,Location,ResourceType
```

```
Name                                                  Location   ResourceType
----                                                  --------   ------------
myLinuxVM_OsDisk_1_36ca038791f642ba91270879088c249a   westeurope Microsoft.Compute/disks
myWindowsVM_OsDisk_1_f627e6e2bb454c72897d72e9632adf9a westeurope Microsoft.Compute/disks
myLinuxVM                                             westeurope Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines
myWindowsVM                                           westeurope Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines
myWindowsVM/BGInfo                                    westeurope Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/extensions
myNic1                                                westeurope Microsoft.Network/networkInterfaces
myNic2                                                westeurope Microsoft.Network/networkInterfaces
myNetworkSecurityGroup1                               westeurope Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups
myNetworkSecurityGroup2                               westeurope Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups
mypublicdns245369171                                  westeurope Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses
mypublicdns779537141                                  westeurope Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses
MYvNET1                                               westeurope Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks
MYvNET2                                               westeurope Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks
micromyresomywi032907510                              westeurope Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts
```

## Deleting resources

To clean up your Azure account, you want to remove the resources we created in this example. You
can use the `Remove-AzureRm*` cmdlets to delete the resources you no longer need. To remove the
Windows VM we created, using the following command:

```powershell
Remove-AzureRmVM -Name myWindowsVM -ResourceGroupName myResourceGroup
```

You will be prompted to confirm that you want to remove the resource.

```
Confirm
Are you sure you want to remove resource group 'myResourceGroup'
[Y] Yes  [N] No  [S] Suspend  [?] Help (default is "Y"): Y
```

You can also use the delete many resources at one time. For example, the following command deletes
all the resource group "MyResourceGroup" that we've used for all the samples in this Get Started
tutorial. This removes the resource group and all of the resources in it.

```powershell
Remove-AzureRmResourceGroup -Name myResourceGroup
```

```
Confirm
Are you sure you want to remove resource group 'myResourceGroup'
[Y] Yes  [N] No  [S] Suspend  [?] Help (default is "Y"): Y
```

This can take several minutes to complete.

## Get samples

To learn more about ways to use the Azure PowerShell, check out our most common scripts for
[Linux VMs](/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-linux-powershell-samples?toc=%2fpowershell%2fazure%%2ftoc.json),
[Windows VMs](/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-windows-powershell-samples?toc=%2fpowershell%2fazure%%2ftoc.json),
[Web Apps](/azure/app-service-web/app-service-powershell-samples?toc=%2fpowershell%2fazure%%2ftoc.json), and
[SQL Databases](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-powershell-samples?toc=%2fpowershell%2fazure%%2ftoc.json).

## Next steps

* [Login with Azure PowerShell](authenticate-azureps.md)
* [Manage Azure subscriptions with Azure PowerShell](manage-subscriptions-azureps.md)
* [Create service principals in Azure using Azure PowerShell](create-azure-service-principal-azureps.md)
* Read the Release notes about migrating from an older release:
  [https://github.com/Azure/azure-powershell/tree/dev/documentation/release-notes](https://github.com/Azure/azure-powershell/tree/dev/documentation/release-notes).
* Get help from the community:
  + [Azure forum on MSDN](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=320212)
  + [stackoverflow](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=320213)

Commit message:

Adding notes about Cloud shell

azureps-cmdlets-docs/ResourceManager/docs-conceptual/get-started-azureps.md, after:

---
title: Get started with Azure PowerShell | Microsoft Docs
description:
services: azure
author: sdwheeler
ms.author: sewhee
manager: carmonm
ms.product: azure
ms.service: azure-powershell
ms.devlang: powershell
ms.topic: get-started-article
ms.date: 03/30/2017
---
# Getting started with Azure PowerShell

Azure PowerShell is designed for managing and administering Azure resources from the command line,
and for building automation scripts that work against the Azure Resource Manager. You can use it in
your browser with [Azure Cloud Shell](/azure/cloud-shell/overview), or you can install it on your
local machine and use it in any PowerShell session. This article helps get you started using it,
and teaches you the core concepts behind it.

## Connect

The simplest way to get started is to [launch Cloud Shell](/azure/cloud-shell/quickstart).

1. Launch Cloud Shell from the top navigation of the Azure portal.

   ![Shell icon](media/get-started-azureps/shell-icon.png)

2. Choose the subscription you want to use and create a storage account.

   ![Create a storage account](media/get-started-azureps/storage-prompt.png)

You can also install Azure PowerShell and use it locally in a PowerShell session.

## Install Azure PowerShell

The first step is to make sure you have the latest version of the Azure PowerShell installed. For
information about the latest release, see the [release notes](./release-notes-azureps.md).

1. [Install Azure PowerShell](install-azurerm-ps.md).

2. To verify the installation was successful, run `Get-Module AzureRM` from your
   command line.

## Log in to Azure

Sign on interactively:

1. Type `Login-AzureRmAccount`. You will get dialog box asking for your Azure credentials. Option
  '-EnvironmentName' can let you login in Azure China or Azure Germany.

   e.g. Login-AzureRmAccount -EnvironmentName AzureChinaCloud

2. Type the email address and password associated with your account. Azure authenticates and saves
   the credential information, and then closes the window.

Once you have signed in to an Azure account, you can use the Azure PowerShell cmdlets to access and
manager the resources in your subscription.

## Create a resource group

Now that we've got everything set up, let's use Azure PowerShell to create resources within Azure.

First, create a Resource Group. Resource Groups in Azure provide a way to manage multiple resources
that you want to logically group together. For example, you might create a Resource Group for an
application or project and add a virtual machine, a database and a CDN service within it.

Let's create a resource group named "MyResourceGroup" in the westeurope region of Azure. To do so
type the following command:

```powershell
New-AzureRmResourceGroup -Name 'myResourceGroup' -Location 'westeurope'
```

```
ResourceGroupName : myResourceGroup
Location          : westeurope
ProvisioningState : Succeeded
Tags              :
ResourceId        : /subscriptions/XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup
```

## Create a Windows Virtual Machine

Now that we have our resource group, let's create a Windows VM within it. To create a new VM we must
first create the other required resources and assign them to a configuration. Then we can use that
configuration to create the VM.

### Create the required network resources

First we need to create a subnet configuration to be used with the virtual network creation
process. We also create a public IP address so that we can connect to this VM. We create a network
security group to secure access to the public address. Finally we create the virtual NIC using all
of the previous resources.

```powershell
# Variables for common values
$resourceGroup = "myResourceGroup"
$location = "westeurope"
$vmName = "myWindowsVM"

# Create a subnet configuration
$subnetConfig = New-AzureRmVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name mySubnet1 -AddressPrefix 192.168.1.0/24

# Create a virtual network
$vnet = New-AzureRmVirtualNetwork -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -Name MYvNET1 -AddressPrefix 192.168.0.0/16 -Subnet $subnetConfig

# Create a public IP address and specify a DNS name
$publicIp = New-AzureRmPublicIpAddress -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -Name "mypublicdns$(Get-Random)" -AllocationMethod Static -IdleTimeoutInMinutes 4
$publicIp | Select-Object Name,IpAddress

# Create an inbound network security group rule for port 3389
$nsgRuleRDP = New-AzureRmNetworkSecurityRuleConfig -Name myNetworkSecurityGroupRuleRDP  -Protocol Tcp `
  -Direction Inbound -Priority 1000 -SourceAddressPrefix * -SourcePortRange * -DestinationAddressPrefix * `
  -DestinationPortRange 3389 -Access Allow

# Create a network security group
$nsg = New-AzureRmNetworkSecurityGroup -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -Name myNetworkSecurityGroup1 -SecurityRules $nsgRuleRDP

# Create a virtual network card and associate with public IP address and NSG
$nic = New-AzureRmNetworkInterface -Name myNic1 -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -SubnetId $vnet.Subnets[0].Id -PublicIpAddressId $publicIp.Id -NetworkSecurityGroupId $nsg.Id
```

### Create the virtual machine

First we need a set of credentials for the OS.

```powershell
# Create user object
$cred = Get-Credential -Message "Enter a username and password for the virtual machine."
```

Now that we have the required resources we can create the VM. For this step, we create a VM
configuration object, then we use the configuration to create the VM.

```powershell
# Create a virtual machine configuration
$vmConfig = New-AzureRmVMConfig -VMName $vmName -VMSize Standard_D1 |
  Set-AzureRmVMOperatingSystem -Windows -ComputerName $vmName -Credential $cred |
  Set-AzureRmVMSourceImage -PublisherName MicrosoftWindowsServer -Offer WindowsServer -Skus 2016-Datacenter -Version latest |
  Add-AzureRmVMNetworkInterface -Id $nic.Id

# Create a virtual machine
New-AzureRmVM -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location -VM $vmConfig
```

The `New-AzureRmVM` command outputs results once the VM has been fully created and is ready to be used.

```
RequestId IsSuccessStatusCode StatusCode ReasonPhrase
--------- ------------------- ---------- ------------
                         True         OK OK
```

Now log on to your newly created Windows Server VM using Remote Desktop and the public IP address
of the VM. The following command displays the public IP address created in the previous script.

```powershell
$publicIp | Select-Object Name,IpAddress
```

```
Name                  IpAddress
----                  ---------
mypublicdns1400512543 xx.xx.xx.xx
```

If you are on a Windows-based system, you can do this from the command line using the mstsc
command:

```
mstsc /v:xx.xxx.xx.xxx
```

Supply the same username/password combination you used when creating the VM to log in.


## Create a Linux Virtual Machine

To create a new Linux VM we must first create the other required resources and assign them to a
configuration. Then we can use that configuration to create the VM. This assumes that you have
already created the resource group as previously shown. Also, you will need to have an SSH public
key named `id_rsa.pub` in the .ssh directory of your user profile.

### Create the required network resources

First we need to create a subnet configuration to be used with the virtual network creation
process. We also create a public IP address so that we can connect to this VM. We create a network
security group to secure access to the public address. Finally we create the virtual NIC using all
of the previous resources.

```powershell
# Variables for common values
$resourceGroup = "myResourceGroup"
$location = "westeurope"
$vmName = "myLinuxVM"

# Definer user name and blank password
$securePassword = ConvertTo-SecureString ' ' -AsPlainText -Force
$cred = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential ("azureuser", $securePassword)

# Create a subnet configuration
$subnetConfig = New-AzureRmVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name mySubnet2 -AddressPrefix 192.168.2.0/24

# Create a virtual network
$vnet = New-AzureRmVirtualNetwork -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -Name MYvNET2 -AddressPrefix 192.168.0.0/16 -Subnet $subnetConfig

# Create a public IP address and specify a DNS name
$publicIp = New-AzureRmPublicIpAddress -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -Name "mypublicdns$(Get-Random)" -AllocationMethod Static -IdleTimeoutInMinutes 4
$publicIp | Select-Object Name,IpAddress

# Create an inbound network security group rule for port 22
$nsgRuleSSH = New-AzureRmNetworkSecurityRuleConfig -Name myNetworkSecurityGroupRuleSSH  -Protocol Tcp `
  -Direction Inbound -Priority 1000 -SourceAddressPrefix * -SourcePortRange * -DestinationAddressPrefix * `
  -DestinationPortRange 22 -Access Allow

# Create a network security group
$nsg = New-AzureRmNetworkSecurityGroup -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -Name myNetworkSecurityGroup2 -SecurityRules $nsgRuleSSH

# Create a virtual network card and associate with public IP address and NSG
$nic = New-AzureRmNetworkInterface -Name myNic2 -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location `
  -SubnetId $vnet.Subnets[0].Id -PublicIpAddressId $publicIp.Id -NetworkSecurityGroupId $nsg.Id
```

### Create the virtual machine

Now that we have the required resources we can create the VM. For this step, we create a VM
configuration object, then we use the configuration to create the VM.

```powershell
# Create a virtual machine configuration
$vmConfig = New-AzureRmVMConfig -VMName $vmName -VMSize Standard_D1 |
  Set-AzureRmVMOperatingSystem -Linux -ComputerName $vmName -Credential $cred -DisablePasswordAuthentication |
  Set-AzureRmVMSourceImage -PublisherName Canonical -Offer UbuntuServer -Skus 14.04.2-LTS -Version latest |
  Add-AzureRmVMNetworkInterface -Id $nic.Id

# Configure SSH Keys
$sshPublicKey = Get-Content "$env:USERPROFILE\.ssh\id_rsa.pub"
Add-AzureRmVMSshPublicKey -VM $vmConfig -KeyData $sshPublicKey -Path "/home/azureuser/.ssh/authorized_keys"

# Create a virtual machine
New-AzureRmVM -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Location $location -VM $vmConfig
```

Now that the VM has been created, you can log on to your new Linux VM using SSH with the public IP
address of the VM you created:

```bash
ssh xx.xxx.xxx.xxx
```

```
Welcome to Ubuntu 14.04.4 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.19.0-65-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com/

  System information as of Sun Feb 19 00:32:28 UTC 2017

  System load: 0.31              Memory usage: 3%   Processes:       89
  Usage of /:  39.6% of 1.94GB   Swap usage:   0%   Users logged in: 0

  Graph this data and manage this system at:
    https://landscape.canonical.com/

  Get cloud support with Ubuntu Advantage Cloud Guest:
    http://www.ubuntu.com/business/services/cloud

0 packages can be updated.
0 updates are security updates.



The programs included with the Ubuntu system are free software;
the exact distribution terms for each program are described in the
individual files in /usr/share/doc/*/copyright.

Ubuntu comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by
applicable law.

my-login@MyLinuxVM:~$
```

## Creating other resources in Azure

We've now walked through how to create a Resource Group, a Linux VM, and a Windows Server VM. You
can create many other types of Azure resources as well.

For example, to create an Azure Network Load Balancer that we could then associate with our newly
created VMs, we can use the following create command:

```powershell
New-AzureRmLoadBalancer -Name MyLoadBalancer -ResourceGroupName myResourceGroup -Location westeurope
```

We could also create a new private Virtual Network (commonly referred to as a "VNet" within Azure)
for our infrastructure using the following command:

```powershell
$subnetConfig = New-AzureRmVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name mySubnet2 -AddressPrefix 10.0.0.0/16
$vnet = New-AzureRmVirtualNetwork -ResourceGroupName myResourceGroup -Location westeurope `
  -Name MYvNET3 -AddressPrefix 10.0.0.0/16 -Subnet $subnetConfig
```

What makes Azure and the Azure PowerShell powerful is that we can use it not just to get
cloud-based infrastructure but also to create managed platform services. The managed platform
services can also be combined with infrastructure to build even more powerful solutions.

For example, you can use the Azure PowerShell to create an Azure AppService. Azure AppService is a
managed platform service that provides a great way to host web apps without having to worry about
infrastructure. After creating the Azure AppService, you can create two new Azure Web Apps within
the AppService using the following commands:

```powershell
# Create an Azure AppService that we can host any number of web apps within
New-AzureRmAppServicePlan -Name MyAppServicePlan -Tier Basic -NumberofWorkers 2 -WorkerSize Small -ResourceGroupName myResourceGroup -Location westeurope

# Create Two Web Apps within the AppService (note: name param must be a unique DNS entry)
New-AzureRmWebApp -Name MyWebApp43432 -AppServicePlan MyAppServicePlan -ResourceGroupName myResourceGroup -Location westeurope
New-AzureRmWebApp -Name MyWebApp43433 -AppServicePlan MyAppServicePlan -ResourceGroupName myResourceGroup -Location westeurope
```

## Listing deployed resources

You can use the `Get-AzureRmResource` cmdlet to list the resources running in Azure. The following
example shows the resources we just created in the new resource group.

```powershell
Get-AzureRmResource |
  Where-Object ResourceGroupName -eq myResourceGroup |
    Select-Object Name,Location,ResourceType
```

```
Name                                                  Location   ResourceType
----                                                  --------   ------------
myLinuxVM_OsDisk_1_36ca038791f642ba91270879088c249a   westeurope Microsoft.Compute/disks
myWindowsVM_OsDisk_1_f627e6e2bb454c72897d72e9632adf9a westeurope Microsoft.Compute/disks
myLinuxVM                                             westeurope Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines
myWindowsVM                                           westeurope Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines
myWindowsVM/BGInfo                                    westeurope Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/extensions
myNic1                                                westeurope Microsoft.Network/networkInterfaces
myNic2                                                westeurope Microsoft.Network/networkInterfaces
myNetworkSecurityGroup1                               westeurope Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups
myNetworkSecurityGroup2                               westeurope Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups
mypublicdns245369171                                  westeurope Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses
mypublicdns779537141                                  westeurope Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses
MYvNET1                                               westeurope Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks
MYvNET2                                               westeurope Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks
micromyresomywi032907510                              westeurope Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts
```

## Deleting resources

To clean up your Azure account, you want to remove the resources we created in this example. You
can use the `Remove-AzureRm*` cmdlets to delete the resources you no longer need. To remove the
Windows VM we created, using the following command:

```powershell
Remove-AzureRmVM -Name myWindowsVM -ResourceGroupName myResourceGroup
```

You will be prompted to confirm that you want to remove the resource.

```
Confirm
Are you sure you want to remove resource group 'myResourceGroup'
[Y] Yes  [N] No  [S] Suspend  [?] Help (default is "Y"): Y
```

You can also use the delete many resources at one time. For example, the following command deletes
all the resource group "MyResourceGroup" that we've used for all the samples in this Get Started
tutorial. This removes the resource group and all of the resources in it.

```powershell
Remove-AzureRmResourceGroup -Name myResourceGroup
```

```
Confirm
Are you sure you want to remove resource group 'myResourceGroup'
[Y] Yes  [N] No  [S] Suspend  [?] Help (default is "Y"): Y
```

This can take several minutes to complete.

## Get samples

To learn more about ways to use the Azure PowerShell, check out our most common scripts for
[Linux VMs](/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-linux-powershell-samples?toc=%2fpowershell%2fazure%%2ftoc.json),
[Windows VMs](/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-windows-powershell-samples?toc=%2fpowershell%2fazure%%2ftoc.json),
[Web Apps](/azure/app-service-web/app-service-powershell-samples?toc=%2fpowershell%2fazure%%2ftoc.json), and
[SQL Databases](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-powershell-samples?toc=%2fpowershell%2fazure%%2ftoc.json).

## Next steps

* [Login with Azure PowerShell](authenticate-azureps.md)
* [Manage Azure subscriptions with Azure PowerShell](manage-subscriptions-azureps.md)
* [Create service principals in Azure using Azure PowerShell](create-azure-service-principal-azureps.md)
* Read the Release notes about migrating from an older release:
  [https://github.com/Azure/azure-powershell/tree/dev/documentation/release-notes](https://github.com/Azure/azure-powershell/tree/dev/documentation/release-notes).
* Get help from the community:
  + [Azure forum on MSDN](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=320212)
  + [stackoverflow](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=320213)
