azureps-cmdlets-docs/ResourceManager/docs-conceptual/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview of Azure PowerShell | Microsoft Docs
description: An overview of Azure PowerShell with links to installation and configuration.
author: sdwheeler
ms.author: sewhee
manager: carmonm
ms.product: azure
ms.service: azure-powershell
ms.devlang: powershell
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.manager: carmonm
ms.date: 07/26/2017
---

# Overview of Azure PowerShell

Azure PowerShell provides a set of cmdlets that use the
[Azure Resource Manager](/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-group-overview) model for managing
your Azure resources.

Review the [Install](install-azurerm-ps.md) article to get Azure PowerShell up and running on your
system. Then read the [Get Started](get-started-azureps.md) article to begin using it. For information about the latest
release, see the [release notes](release-notes-azureps.md).

The following samples can help you learn how to perform common scenarios with Azure PowerShell:

* [Linux Virtual Machines](/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-linux-powershell-samples?toc=/powershell/azure/toc.json)
* [Windows Virtual Machines](/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-windows-powershell-samples?toc=/powershell/azure/toc.json)
* [Web Apps](/azure/app-service-web/app-service-powershell-samples?toc=/powershell/azure/toc.json)
* [SQL Databases](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-powershell-samples?toc=/powershell/azure/toc.json)


> [!NOTE] > If you have deployments that use the classic deployment model that cannot be converted,
> you can install the Service Management version of Azure PowerShell. For more information, see
> [Install the Azure PowerShell Service Management module](/powershell/azure/servicemanagement/install-azure-ps).


### Need help with PowerShell?

If you are unfamiliar with PowerShell, you may find an introduction to PowerShell helpful. To get
started with PowerShell, see
[Scripting with PowerShell](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/bb978526.aspx).

You can also watch this video:
[PowerShell Basics: (Part 1) Getting Started with PowerShell](https://channel9.msdn.com/Blogs/Taste-of-Premier/PowerShellBasicsPart1).

## Other Azure PowerShell modules

* [Azure Active Directory](/powershell/azure/active-directory/)
* [Azure Information Protection](/powershell/azure/aip/)
* [Azure Service Fabric](/powershell/azure/service-fabric/)
* [Azure ElasticDB](/powershell/azure/elasticdbjobs/)

Commit message:

Adding notes about Cloud shell

azureps-cmdlets-docs/ResourceManager/docs-conceptual/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview of Azure PowerShell | Microsoft Docs
description: An overview of Azure PowerShell with links to installation and configuration.
author: sdwheeler
ms.author: sewhee
manager: carmonm
ms.product: azure
ms.service: azure-powershell
ms.devlang: powershell
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.manager: carmonm
ms.date: 07/26/2017
---

# Overview of Azure PowerShell

Azure PowerShell provides a set of cmdlets that use the [Azure Resource
Manager](/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-group-overview) model for managing your Azure
resources. You can use it in your browser with [Azure Cloud Shell](/azure/cloud-shell/overview), or
you can install it on your local machine and use it in any PowerShell session.

Review the [Install](install-azurerm-ps.md) article to get Azure PowerShell up and running on your
system. Then read the [Get Started](get-started-azureps.md) article to begin using it. For
information about the latest release, see the [release notes](release-notes-azureps.md).

The following samples can help you learn how to perform common scenarios with Azure PowerShell:

* [Linux Virtual Machines](/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-linux-powershell-samples?toc=/powershell/azure/toc.json)
* [Windows Virtual Machines](/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-windows-powershell-samples?toc=/powershell/azure/toc.json)
* [Web Apps](/azure/app-service-web/app-service-powershell-samples?toc=/powershell/azure/toc.json)
* [SQL Databases](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-powershell-samples?toc=/powershell/azure/toc.json)


> [!NOTE] > If you have deployments that use the classic deployment model that cannot be converted,
> you can install the Service Management version of Azure PowerShell. For more information, see
> [Install the Azure PowerShell Service Management module](/powershell/azure/servicemanagement/install-azure-ps).


### Need help with PowerShell?

If you are unfamiliar with PowerShell, you may find an introduction to PowerShell helpful.

* [Installing PowerShell](/powershell/scripting/installing-windows-powershell)
* [Scripting with PowerShell](/powershell/scripting/scripting-with-windows-powershell)

You can also watch this video:
[PowerShell Basics: (Part 1) Getting Started with PowerShell](https://channel9.msdn.com/Blogs/Taste-of-Premier/PowerShellBasicsPart1).

## Other Azure PowerShell modules

* [Azure Active Directory](/powershell/azure/active-directory/)
* [Azure Information Protection](/powershell/azure/aip/)
* [Azure Service Fabric](/powershell/azure/service-fabric/)
* [Azure ElasticDB](/powershell/azure/elasticdbjobs/)
